[en]: update network/intro/issues.md (#4970)
DaoCloud/DaoCloud-docs: docs/en/docs/network/intro/issues.md

- Impacts:

    | Calico Version | Behavior | Impact |
    | ----------- | --- | --- |
    | <v3.26.0 | Only support needs to be specified manually, there are some logical issues with the automatic calculation.  | | <v3.26.0 | Support only requires manual specification.
    | >=v3.26.0 | Automatic calculation. | | None |

- Recommendations: Update to v3.26.0+. Lower versions require manual specification of the `FELIX_IPTABLESBACKEND` variable, optionally NFT or LEGACY.

- References: [Calico PR #7111](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/7111)

## Spiderpool

- Recommendations: If you encounter the following problem, please try to update Spiderpool to a higher version to solve it.

### Known Issues in v0.9

####  An error occurred during SpiderCoordinator synchronization, but its status remains running

- Analysis: If getting the CIDR information for the cluster fails, we should update its status to NotReady, which will prevent the Pod from being created properly. Otherwise, the Pod will run with an incorrect CIDR, which will cause network connectivity issues.

- References: [Spiderpool PR #2929](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2929)

> #### Values.multus.multusCNI.uninstall does not take effect after setting, resulting in multus resources not being deleted correctly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `Values.multus.multusCNI.uninstall` does not take effect after setting, resulting in multus resources not being deleted correctly
```
中英文都没改过来

- Analysis: After uninstalling Spiderpool with Values.multus.multusCNI.uninstall set to true, multus related resources are still present and not removed as expected.

- References: [Spiderpool PR #2974](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2974)

#### Cannot get serviceCIDR from kubeControllerManager Pod when kubeadm-config is missing

- Analysis: In some scenarios where kubeadm is not used to create a cluster, there may not be a kubeadm-config configMap, 

> so that an attempt will be made to get the serviceCIDR from kubeControllerManager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  so that an attempt will be made to get the serviceCIDR from kubeControllerManager.
```

>   Due to a bug, the serviceCIDR cannot be obtained from the kubeControllerManager Pod, causing the status update of the SpiderCoordinator to fail.

Reviewer: 这么近，get, obtain 不用统一吗？get 是常见的编程函数，类似 get()

- References: [Spiderpool PR #3020](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/3020)

> #### Upgrading from v0.7.0 to v0.9.0 will cause a panic due to a new attribute in the SpiderCoordinator CRD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Upgrading from v0.7.0 to v0.9.0 will cause panic due to a new attribute `TxQueueLen` to the SpiderCoordinator CRD
```
下面的描述用 new attributes to, 标题用 new attribute in，为啥？这里就需要人工修正了

- Analysis: Spiderpool v0.9.0 added a new attributes `TxQueueLen` to SpiderCoordinator CRD,
  but during the upgrade operation, there is no default value, which will cause panic.
  You need to use it and treat it as default value 0.

- References: [Spiderpool PR #3118](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/3118)

#### Different cluster deployment methods cause SpiderCoordinator to return an empty serviceCIDR, preventing Pod creation

> - Analysis: Due to different cluster deployment methods, there are two types of CIDRs recorded in the cluster kube-controller-manager Pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Analysis: Depending on the cluster deployment method used, two types of CIDRs are recorded in the cluster kube-controller-manager Pod:
```

>     - `Spec.Containers[0].Command`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `Spec.Containers[0].Command`
```

    - `Spec.Containers[0].Args`

    For example, the RKE2 cluster is `Spec.Containers[0].Args` instead of `Spec.Containers[0].Command`.

>     And hardcode `Spec.Containers[0].Command` in the original logic, resulting in a judgment exception that returns an empty serviceCIDR and fails to create the Pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `Spec.Containers[0].Command` is hardcoded in the original implementation logic, leading to a judgment error that results in an empty `serviceCIDR` and subsequently causes the Pod creation to fail.
```

- References: [Spiderpool PR #3011](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/3011)

### Known Issues in v0.7

#### Statefulset type Pod reboots with IP conflict when getting IP assignment

- Analysis: As the StatefulSet Pod restarts, GC scanAll will release the previous IP address, because the system thinks that the Pod UID is different from the IP address recorded by IPPool so that prompts a conflict.

- References: [Spiderpool PR #2538](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2538)

#### Spiderpool cannot recognize third-party controllers, preventing StatefulSet Pod from having fixed IP addresses

- Symptoms: Spiderpool cannot recognize third-party controllers like RedisCluster, and the pod of StatefulSet controlled by them cannot use fixed IPs.

- Analysis: For third party controllers: RedisCluster -> StatefulSet -> Pod, if Spiderpool sets the SpiderSubnet autopool annotation for it, the Pod will not start successfully.

- References: [Spiderpool PR #2370](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2370)

> #### Empty spidermultusconfig.spec will cause the spiderpool-controller Pod to crash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Empty `spidermultusconfig.spec` will cause the spiderpool-controller Pod to crash
```

> - Symptoms: Created CR with empty spidermultusconfig.spec, webhook checksum succeeds, but no associated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Symptoms: Created CR with empty `spidermultusconfig.spec`, webhook checksum succeeds, but no associated
```
以 `.` 连接的这些 yaml 参数，都可以加 backticks \`\`，中英都要修改

  network-attachment-definitions are generated and spiderpool-controller is seen to be in panic.

- References: [Spiderpool PR #2444](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2444)

#### cilium schema gets wrong overlayPodCIDR

- Symptoms: spidercoordinator auto mode gets the wrong type of `podCIDRType`, updating spidercoordinator status is not as expected, and creating a Pod may cause network issues.

- References: [Spiderpool PR #2434](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2434)

> #### In Scenario with 1:1 number of Pods and IPs, IPAM allocation is blocked, resulting in some Pods not being able to run, impacting IP allocation performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### In a 1:1 Pod-to-IP scenario, IPAM allocation can be blocked, preventing some Pods from running and affecting IP allocation performance
```
shorter is better for headings

- Analysis: An IPPool with 1000 IP addresses and a Deployment with 1000 replicas is created and assigned a certain number of IP addresses.
  After allocating a certain number of IP addresses, you observe a significant decrease in allocation performance, to the point where you cannot continue to allocate IP addresses, and a Pod cannot start normally without an IP address.
  The actual IPPool resource has already recorded the Pod and assigned its IP address, but the Pod corresponding to the SpiderEndpoint does not exist.

- References: [Spiderpool PR #2518](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2518)

#### Disabling the IP GC feature will prevent the spiderpool-controller component from starting correctly due to readiness health check failures

- Analysis: Disabling the IP GC feature will prevent the spiderpool-controller component from starting correctly due to a readiness health check failure.

- References: [Spiderpool PR #2532](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2532)

> #### IPPool.Spec.MultusName cannot find the associated multusName due to a namespace parsing error when specifying namespace/multusName

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `IPPool.Spec.MultusName` cannot find the associated multusName due to a namespace parsing error when specifying namespace/multusName
```

> - Symptoms: IPPool.Spec.MultusName specifies namespace/multusName, but a namespace parsing error makes the multusName unfindable, causinhg affinity to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Symptoms: `IPPool.Spec.MultusName` specifies namespace/multusName, but a namespace parsing error makes the multusName unfindable, causinhg affinity to fail.
```

- Recommendations: When lower version Calico has access latency issue, it can be avoided by `ethtool --offload vxlan.calico rx off tx off`.
  Higher versions Calico will automatically disable VXLAN offload by default, so customers with network performance requirements can upgrade the kernel to 5.7 to solve the problem.

- References:

* [Calico Issue #3145](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/issues/3145)
* [Felix Pull Request #2811](https://github.com/projectcalico/felix/pull/2811)

### The parent device of VXLAN is modified but the route is not updated

- Impacts:

| Calico Versions | Behaviors | Impacts |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| <v3.28.0 | Not handled | If routing table does not to use new parent NIC, old routes can't be cleaned up even after restarting felix. |
| >=v3.28.0 | VXLAN Manager recreates the routing table when the parent device changes. | None |

> - Recommendation: You can update to v3.28.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Recommendation: Update Calico to v3.28.
```

- Reference: [Calico PR #8279](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/8279)

### Caches of Cluster calico-kube-controllers are out of sync, causing memory leaks

> - Recommendation: You can update to v3.26.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Recommendation: Update Calico to v3.26.0.
```

### The pod Cross-Node Network fails in IPIP mode

- Impacts:

| Calico Versions | Behaviors | Impacts |
| ----------- | --- | --- |
| <v3.28.0 | Not handled | The pod Cross-Node Network may fail in kernel < 5.7 due to incompatibility of calculation between checksum and `iptables --random-fully`. |
| >=v3.28.0 | The calculation of checksum is disabled by default | None |

> - Recommendation: You can update to v3.28.0+, and lower versions can be turned off manually using `ethtool -K tunl0 tx off` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Recommendation: Update Calico to v3.28.0+. For earlier versions, you can manually turn off the feature using the`ethtool -K tunl0 tx off` command.
```

> - References: [Calico PR #8031](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/8031)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reference: [Calico PR #8031](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/8031)
```

### iptables nft and legacy mode selection issue

- Impacts:

    | Calico Versions | Behaviors | Impacts |
    | ----------- | --- | --- |
    | <v3.26.0 | It needs to be specified manually, and there are some logical problems with automatic calculations. | Service network anomalies may occur due to incorrect iptables mode selection. |
    | >=v3.26.0 | Automatic calculation | None |

> - Recommendations: You can update to v3.26.0+, and lower versions require manually specifying the `FELIX_IPTABLESBACKEND` variable with the optional values NFT or LEGACY..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Recommendations: Update Calico to v3.26.0+. For earlier versions, you need to manually specify the `FELIX_IPTABLESBACKEND` variable with either the NFT or LEGACY option..
```

- Reference: [Calico PR #7111](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/7111)

## Spiderpool

- Recommendation: If you encounter the following problem, please try to update Spiderpool to a higher version to solve it.

### Known issues in v0.9

#### SpiderCoordinator has an error synchronizing status, but the status is still running

- Analysis: If getting the CIDR information for the cluster fails, we should update its status to NotReady, which will prevent the pod from being created properly. Otherwise, the pod will run with an incorrect CIDR, which will make network connectivity fail.

- Reference: [Spiderpool PR #2929](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2929)

#### `Values.multus.multusCNI.uninstall` does not take effect after setting, resulting in multus resources not being deleted correctly

> - Analysis: After Values.multus.multusCNI.uninstall set to true and Spiderpool uninstalled, multus related resources are still present and not removed as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Analysis: After `Values.multus.multusCNI.uninstall` set to true and Spiderpool uninstalled, multus-related resources are still present and not removed as expected.
```
这是不细心吗？

- Reference: [Spiderpool PR #2974](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2974)

> #### serviceCIDR cannot be get from kubeControllerManager pod when kubeadm-config is missing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### serviceCIDR cannot be gotten from kubeControllerManager pod when kubeadm-config is missing
```
这是初中生的基本错误？

- Analysis: In some scenarios where kubeadm is not used to create a cluster, there may not be a kubeadm-config configMap,
  so that an attempt will be made to get the serviceCIDR from kubeControllerManager.

>   Due to a bug, the serviceCIDR cannot be get from the kubeControllerManager pod, causing the status update of the SpiderCoordinator to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Due to a bug, the serviceCIDR cannot be gotten from the kubeControllerManager pod, causing the status update of the SpiderCoordinator to fail.
```

- Reference: [Spiderpool PR #3020](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/3020)

#### Upgrading from v0.7.0 to v0.9.0 will cause a panic due to a new attribute `TxQueueLen` to the SpiderCoordinator CRD

- Analysis: Spiderpool v0.9.0 added a new attributes `TxQueueLen` to SpiderCoordinator CRD.
  However, during the upgrade operation, there is no default value, which will cause a panic.
  Therefore, you need to use it and treat it as default value 0.

> - References: [Spiderpool PR #3118](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/3118)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reference: [Spiderpool PR #3118](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/3118)
```

- Reference: [Spiderpool PR #2929](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2929)

#### `Values.multus.multusCNI.uninstall` does not take effect after setting, resulting in multus resources not being deleted correctly

- Analysis: After `Values.multus.multusCNI.uninstall` set to true and Spiderpool uninstalled, multus-related resources are still present and not removed as expected.

- Reference: [Spiderpool PR #2974](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/2974)

#### serviceCIDR cannot be gotten from kubeControllerManager pod when kubeadm-config is missing

- Analysis: In some scenarios where kubeadm is not used to create a cluster, there may not be a kubeadm-config configMap,
  so that an attempt will be made to get the serviceCIDR from kubeControllerManager.
  Due to a bug, the serviceCIDR cannot be gotten from the kubeControllerManager pod, causing the SpiderCoordinator to fail to update status.

- Reference: [Spiderpool PR #3020](https://github.com/spidernet-io/spiderpool/pull/3020)

#### Upgrading from v0.7.0 to v0.9.0 will cause a panic due to a new attribute `TxQueueLen` to the SpiderCoordinator CRD

> - Analysis: In Spiderpool v0.9.0, a new attributes `TxQueueLen` is added to SpiderCoordinator CRD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Analysis: In Spiderpool v0.9.0, a new attribute `TxQueueLen` is added to SpiderCoordinator CRD.
```
